README for Contiki port of TinyECC by Kasun Hewage

Introduction
--------------
This package provides the Contiki port of TinyECC software package.
All elliptic curve operations, including point addition, point doubling and 
scalar point multiplication are ported. Currently, in addition to the basic 
elliptic curve operations, ECDSA operations (signature generation and
verification) are also ported.
For the testing purpose, only SECP160R1 is used as the Elliptic Curve Domain 
Parameters. This has been tested on Cooja for ECDSA operations. A key agreement 
mechanism like Diffie–Hellman has to be implemented. Currently, all natural 
number operations are performed in a generic way. But most of these natural
number operations can be optimized by using microprocessor specific assembly
instructions.

How to install
--------------

Installing and testing of the TinyECC port is pretty easy. All of the test 
applications reside in the directory "<Contiki ECC Dir>/contiki-apps". 

The test applications show how to use ECC when public key is predistributed.
We use two sensor nodes in this example. One sensor node is Alice
(see the source file "<Contiki ECC Dir>/contiki-apps/alice.c"), another is Bob
(see the source file "<Contiki ECC Dir>/contiki-apps/bob.c"). Suppose Alice's 
public key is predeployed in Bob. Alice broadcasts packets with signature. 
Bob verifies all packets from Alice. If signature is correct, Bob will toggle 
the green LED. Otherwise Bob will toggle red LED.

For the following instructions, it is assumed that the development environment 
for Contiki(including Cooja) is already established.

1. Set the Contiki installed directory in the Makefile of the test applications.
   (set the variable "CONTIKI" in the Makefile "<Contiki ECC Dir>/contiki-apps/Makefile")

2. For the convenience, there is a saved Cooja simulation file("ecdsa-test-cooja.csc").
   The simulation can be run as follows.

   * In the terminal type:
     # make ecdsa-test-cooja.csc

   * The applications for Alice and Bob can be loaded in to two nodes as follows
     - Run Cooja as follows
       # cd <Contiki Dir>/tools/cooja
       # ant run

     - Create a new Simulation. 
       File -> New Simulation
    
     - Create a node with Alice's application
       Mote Types -> Create Mote Type -> Contiki Mote Type

     - Select the source for alice, compile and create a node.
 
     - Follow the above two steps for bob.
     
3. Node 1 is Alice while node 2 is Bob. To test the functionality, click on the button
   of Alice.(Right click on the node and select "click button on Contiki 1").
   When the button of the Alice is clicked, a random message is generated and signed
   using Alice's private key. Then the signature and the message is broadcasted.    
   When Bob receives this message, it verifies the message using Alice's public key.
   


     
